lessons/1. Subtractive Synthesis/06. Add an envelope/lesson.md, before:

> Modify the code on the right so that **each note** has an **attack** with a time constant of `0.1` and a **release** with a time constant of `0.2`.

You can listen to how the audio is supposed to sound by clicking **Play Answer**.

# Gain Node

You can use the [`GainNode`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/GainNode) to change the output volume of sounds.

It has a single attribute, an [AudioParam](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioParam) called [`gain`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/GainNode/gain).


```js
var amp = audioContext.createGain()
amp.connect(audioContext.destination)
oscillator.connect(amp)

// halve the output volume
amp.gain.value = 0.5 
```

# Adding attack and release

Just like with `BiquadFilterNode.frequency` in the previous example, we can sweep the value of `amp.gain` over time.

If we want to soften the **"attack"** of the sound (the start), we can sweep the value from `0` to `1` using [`setTargetAtTime(targetValue, startTime, timeConstant)`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioParam/setTargetAtTime):

```js
amp.gain.value = 0
amp.gain.setTargetAtTime(1, audioContext.currentTime, 0.1)
```

If we want to soften the **"release"** of the sound (the tail end), we can sweep the value back to 0.

Keep in mind that if you are going to add a release envelope to a sound, the sound needs to **keep playing until the release sweep finishes**, otherwise it will just stop.

```js
var endTime = audioContext.currentTime + 2
amp.gain.setTargetAtTime(0, endTime, 0.2)

// provide enough time for the exponential falloff
oscillator.stop(endTime + 2)
```

Commit message:

lessons: improve 05 + 06 to better explain the different types of scheduling

lessons/1. Subtractive Synthesis/06. Add an envelope/lesson.md, after:

> Modify the code on the right so that **each note** has an **attack** with a time constant of `0.1` and a **release** with a time constant of `0.2` (exponential decay).

You can listen to how the audio is supposed to sound by clicking **Play Answer**.

# Gain Node

You can use the [`GainNode`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/GainNode) to change the output volume of sounds.

It has a single attribute, an [AudioParam](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioParam) called [`gain`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/GainNode/gain).


```js
var amp = audioContext.createGain()
amp.connect(audioContext.destination)
oscillator.connect(amp)

// halve the output volume
amp.gain.value = 0.5 
```

# Scheduling attack and release

Just like with `BiquadFilterNode.frequency` in the previous example, we can sweep the value of `amp.gain` over time. Though for the purposes of attack and release envelopes, it sounds a lot nicer (and is easier) to use `setTargetAtTime`.

# [`audioParam.setTargetAtTime(targetValue, startTime, timeConstant)`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioParam/setTargetAtTime)

Schedules the start of a change to the value of the AudioParam. The change starts at the time specified in `startTime` and **exponentially moves** towards the value given by the target parameter. The **exponential decay rate** is defined by the `timeConstant` parameter, which is a time measured in seconds.


# Attack

If we want to soften the **"attack"** of the sound (the start), we can sweep the value from `0` to `1`:

```js
amp.gain.value = 0
amp.gain.setTargetAtTime(1, audioContext.currentTime, 0.1)
```

# Release

If we want to soften the **"release"** of the sound (the tail end), we can sweep the value back to 0.

```js
var endTime = audioContext.currentTime + 2
amp.gain.setTargetAtTime(0, endTime, 0.2)
```

Keep in mind that if you are going to add a release envelope to a sound, the sound needs to **keep playing until the release sweep finishes**, otherwise it will just stop.

```js
// provide enough time for the exponential falloff
oscillator.stop(endTime + 2)
```
