lessons/1. Subtractive Synthesis/04. Add a high-pass filter/lesson.md, before:

> Modify the code on the right so that the audio is **filtered** to **remove** all frequencies **lower** than `10000` Hz. 

You can listen to how the audio is supposed to sound by clicking **Play Answer**.

# Biquad Filter Node

Use the [BiquadFilterNode](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/BiquadFilterNode) to shape the audio output frequencies.

```js
var filter = audioContext.createBiquadFilter()
filter.connect(audioContext.destination)
oscillator.connect(filter)
```

The most common [types of filters](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/BiquadFilterNode/type) are `'lowpass'`, `'highpass'`, and `'bandpass'`.

# Lowpass

The lowpass filter is the default type. It allows all signals with a frequency lower than [`frequency`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/BiquadFilterNode/frequency) to pass and attenuates all signals with higher frequency. 

```js
// filter out all frequencies above 500 Hz
filter.type = 'lowpass'
filter.frequency.value = 500
```

# Highpass

Works the same as the lowpass, except the other way around. All signals with a frequency higher than [`frequency`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/BiquadFilterNode/frequency) are allowed and anything lower is attenuated. 

```js
// filter out all frequencies below 3000 Hz
filter.type = 'highpass'
filter.frequency.value = 3000
```

# Bandpass

Only allows frequencies that are within a certain tolerance of [`frequency`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/BiquadFilterNode/frequency) specified by [`Q`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/BiquadFilterNode/Q).

The greater the Q value, the smaller the frequency band.

```js
// filter out all frequencies that are not near 1000 Hz
filter.type = 'bandpass'
filter.frequency.value = 1000
filter.Q.value = 1
```

# [Other filter types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/BiquadFilterNode/type)

- lowshelf
- highshelf
- peaking
- notch
- allpass

Commit message:

lesson 4: explain connections better and add hint about removing original connection
#16 #10

lessons/1. Subtractive Synthesis/04. Add a high-pass filter/lesson.md, after:

> Modify the code on the right so that the audio is **filtered** to **remove** all frequencies **lower** than `10000` Hz. 

You can listen to how the audio is supposed to sound by clicking **Play Answer**.

# Biquad Filter Node

Use the [BiquadFilterNode](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/BiquadFilterNode) to shape the audio output frequencies.

```js
var filter = audioContext.createBiquadFilter()
filter.connect(audioContext.destination)
oscillator.connect(filter)
```

The most common [types of filters](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/BiquadFilterNode/type) are `'lowpass'`, `'highpass'`, and `'bandpass'`.


# Connections

The `connect()` function acts as a patch cable from one device (the oscillator or the filter) to another.

In previous lessons, we've been connecting the output of an `OscillatorNode` directly to `audioContext.destination` (which in most cases would be your speakers). But in this lesson, we will instead connect the `OscillatorNode` to the `BiquadFilterNode`, and then finally connect the `BiquadFilterNode` to the destination.

We want this:

```
[oscillator] -> [filter] -> [audioContext.destination]
```

**Note:** In this lesson you will need to remove the existing `oscillator.connect(audioContext.destination)`, otherwise the unfiltered audio signal will play along with the filtered one.

# Lowpass

The lowpass filter is the default type. It allows all signals with a frequency lower than [`frequency`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/BiquadFilterNode/frequency) to pass and attenuates all signals with higher frequency.

```js
// filter out all frequencies above 500 Hz
filter.type = 'lowpass'
filter.frequency.value = 500
```

# Highpass

Works the same as the lowpass, except the other way around. All signals with a frequency higher than [`frequency`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/BiquadFilterNode/frequency) are allowed and anything lower is attenuated. 

```js
// filter out all frequencies below 3000 Hz
filter.type = 'highpass'
filter.frequency.value = 3000
```

# Bandpass

Only allows frequencies that are within a certain tolerance of [`frequency`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/BiquadFilterNode/frequency) specified by [`Q`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/BiquadFilterNode/Q).

The greater the Q value, the smaller the frequency band.

```js
// filter out all frequencies that are not near 1000 Hz
filter.type = 'bandpass'
filter.frequency.value = 1000
filter.Q.value = 1
```

# [Other filter types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/BiquadFilterNode/type)

- lowshelf
- highshelf
- peaking
- notch
- allpass
